# Markdown

NuxtPress support some of the of VitePress's markdown [features](https://vitepress.dev/guide/markdown). Below listed features are supported by NuxtPress right now.

> _P.S. We're working on implementing rest of the features._

## Header Anchors

Headers automatically get anchor links applied. Rendering of anchors can be configured using the `markdown.anchor` option.

### Custom anchors

To specify a custom anchor tag for a heading instead of using the auto-generated one, add a suffix to the heading:

```
# Using custom anchors {#my-anchor}
```

This allows you to link to the heading as `#my-anchor` instead of the default `#using-custom-anchors`.

## Emoji :tada:

**Input**

```
:tada: :100:
```

**Output**

:tada: :100:

A [list of all emojis](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it-emoji/blob/master/lib/data/full.mjs) is available.

## Syntax Highlighting in Code Blocks

NuxtPress (Actually, Nuxt Content) uses [Shiki](https://github.com/shikijs/shiki) to highlight language syntax in Markdown code blocks, using coloured text. Shiki supports a wide variety of programming languages. All you need to do is append a valid language alias to the beginning backticks for the code block:

```js
export default {
  name: 'MyComponent'
  // ...
}
```

```html
<ul>
  <li v-for="todo in todos" :key="todo.id">
    {{ todo.text }}
  </li>
</ul>
```

A [list of valid languages](https://shiki.style/languages) is available on Shiki's repository.

You may also customize syntax highlight theme in app config.

## Line Highlighting in Code Blocks

```js{4}
export default {
  data () {
    return {
      msg: 'Highlighted!'
    }
  }
}
```

In addition to a single line, you can also specify multiple single lines, ranges, or both:

- Line ranges: for example `{5-8}`, `{3-10}`, `{10-17}`
- Multiple single lines: for example `{4,7,9}`
- Line ranges and single lines: for example `{4,7-13,16,23-27,40}`

```js{1,4,6-8}
export default { // Highlighted
  data () {
    return {
      msg: `Highlighted!
      This line isn't highlighted,
      but this and the next 2 are.`,
      motd: 'VitePress is awesome',
      lorem: 'ipsum',
    }
  }
}
```

Alternatively, it's possible to highlight directly in the line by using the `// [!code highlight]` comment.

```js
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      msg: 'Highlighted!' // [!code highlight]
    }
  }
}
```

## Colored Diffs in Code Blocks

Adding the `// [!code --]` or `// [!code ++]` comments on a line will create a diff of that line, while keeping the colors of the codeblock.

```js
export default {
  data () {
    return {
      msg: 'Removed' // [!code --]
      msg: 'Added' // [!code ++]
    }
  }
}
```
